welcome to sam's business growth show
i'm sam dunning a digital marketing
sales and business growth evangelist
tune in and subscribe today as i'll be
interviewing business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe you'll be learning their story
how digital marketing has helped them
along the way and exclusive tips
insights to help you skyrocket your own
[Music]
business
and welcome back to a fresh episode of
sam's business growth show
i'm delighted to be joined by toucan das
today tuken is a ceo
over at leadsift and leadsif provide
companies with b2b
intent leads that you can action
immediately
welcome to the show man how's it going
good how are you
yeah oh good thanks so excited to to
jump into
and i know today we're going to be
talking about the data lists are dead
and how people can utilize intent data
to be able to generate hot
b2b leads and so we'll share plenty of
actionable tips
what intent data actually means how we
can leverage that
and why we don't need to go down the
traditional route of actually
kind of using outdated data sheets
hoping that our prospect's going to be
on the end of the line or the end of an
email and then
realizing that a lot of the data is
actually out of date probably bringing
through to the wrong person all these
kind of things
us as sales professionals or business
owners absolutely hate i'm so excited to
jump into that
and really give the audience today some
juicy tips on how they can get hot leads
with their ideal customers and a b2b
atmosphere
before we get to that toucan perhaps you
can give us a quick snapshot on your
background
and why you set up lead sift and i know
you you started as a technical
founder and you you've kind of merged
into a sales role so perhaps you give us
a quick intro on that and some of your
background sir
i'm still figuring out what role i have
merged into uh
but uh i my my my name is tukhan i am
the ceo and co-founder of lead theft
background is in computer science
specifically
uh my my master's thesis was around
natural language processing and data
mining um
so that's that's that's my background
and started lead set eight years ago
with with with a couple of my
co-founders and the whole idea for us
starting lead set was
we we realized there's a ton of valuable
information that was
out there on the web publicly available
that could be used for a business to
better engage their customers
so that was the whole thesis that we
started lead cept on
and the reason we did it was because we
were data data scientists
we could automatically extract some of
these signals at scale
and pass it over to the uh business
owners so that they can use that
to go oops sorry so uh
all the technical difficulties but they
can go ahead and and reach out
um better to their their their
buyers um so that's how they said johnny
started
yeah awesome okay and how was the
transition because i know before we
started recording
you said it was quite a trend tricky
transition going from the technical side
obviously being a data analyst
and then merging that in to be able to
actually sell the services
the products the software that you guys
offer so how did you find that stepping
stone
rough so so
as a technical founder there are a few
things right um
first thing is um one of the things we
we had
was we had this belief that if you build
they will come and a lot of technical
people have that
believe it's like we'll build some cool
things and some people will come because
it's super cool look all the fancy
things we did
um so that was a big mistake and lesson
learned
um so that was that that was one of
those things we learned the other thing
was um being a tech founder we are more
comfortable writing code
doing research and and all that stuff
that's that's what we are trained on
that's what that's our comfort zone and
we we sort of
hide behind a hired sales person or a
marketing person
expecting them to auto magically sell
a half-baked product early on um so that
was also a
massive mistake and lesson learned and
it has got nothing to do with
the quality of the sales person you can
have the world's best sales person
but when you're starting off when your
product is barely just a glorified
minimal viable product you cannot expect
someone else to sell it for you
you as a founder you need to be out
there
selling um selling the vision uh sharing
your passion
um getting the feedback from the
customers passing it back to the product
team
so they can iterate fast um so those
were some of the lessons learned being a
tech founder
uh trying to build a b2b sas startup
awesome man and i really respect that i
mean there's there's a lot of times
where salespeople get the rough end of
the stick
and they're often the first first people
to blame us like oh we didn't hit
revenue target this month
automatic let's blame sales and like you
say i really appreciate the fact that
you're saying look it's especially for
startup companies you need to work
together you need to collect customer
feedback
you need to understand that you might be
starting with a minimum viable product
and that things might not always work
100 and
uh it sounds like you you understood
that and you understood that you already
need to chip in
and to work together to make things
happen rather than just relying on one
or two salespeople to hit the magic
numbers
100 and i to be honest uh
uh and not being over critical but i
understood it too late
but but but but that's absolutely true
you cannot it's not a salesperson's
fault i mean early on i mean
yeah you you have to sell it until it
unless you figured out
the process you have a good idea of what
are the normal objections
what icp fit works and you have sort of
built a repeatable process a very basic
version of it
that's when you bring in your sales
first sales person
let them prove it out then bring the
second one and scale from there on
love that man but that's that's the case
quite often we quite often learn from
our mistakes and things like that
whilst it's rough at the time i'm sure
it's helped out in the long term
all right all right dude so excited to
talk about intent data
why um traditional data list rental
datalist purchasing is
is no longer the way to go so if we
could start off perhaps too can you give
us an explanation of what intent data
actually is
yeah so intent data is is i mean in the
recent times
at least in the b2b space it's one of
the hottest buzzwords and it is
it is becoming a category of its own
there's a lot of
traction behind it but let's
i still see there's a lot of
misconception on what intent
really is so if i had to unpack and
say what intent data means intent
at its core basically means the
probability
of a person or a company needing your
product or services
at any given time that's all intent is
at least buying intent a company needing
your services
uh or solution at a certain given time
that's all intent is
now because it it is around someone
buying your solution
obviously sales and marketing people are
always looking for that that's the holy
grail
now now the reality is when you're
looking at
intent at least in a b2b
there is not a single source of intent
that can
guarantee tell you hey hey sam you know
this company
is going to buy your cyber security
software in the next 30 days
there is none i wish i wish because yes
me too
i'd be a multi-billionaire selling that
data
so there isn't so we need to we need to
understand that
but in the absence of that uh
what there is there are interesting
signals or proxies if you may
that can help you assign a probability
of a company uh to be more likely in the
buying journey for your solution
can they buy in the next you know three
days or 30 days
yes absolutely but can they not buy it
in the next six months that's also
possible
but there's a higher likelihood of them
being receptive to your message because
they're
in market so that's really what intent
data helps you do
um so we need to educate the market
around this expectation because a lot of
the times people think
all right you're telling me these
hundred people have shown intent
90 of them will book a meeting with me
50 of them 19
will then close right that number worth
i wish that was the case that
doesn't happen it could happen
only if these hundred people have shown
intent
on your website they have come to your
website looked at your pricing
booked a meeting uh requested a demo
requested a quote
yes that form of intent is very strong
they're coming to your website and
asking specific information
sure so to dive into this a bit deeper
to ken
um so what what is the difference
perhaps this would be a
comparison what's the difference between
like you mentioned that an inbound lead
so if someone comes onto our website
they request a consultation they request
a quote or a demo
or something like that that of course is
an inbound inquiry for us
um or what's what's actually intent data
is is there a comparison between the two
and on how their way up absolutely yes
so there is
there is two kinds of intent one is what
we call
first party intent that is basically
people
showing some form of interest or buying
intent
on your own properties that could be
someone picking up the phone and calling
you saying hey sam
i heard about your software i'm
interested in buying that's intent
that's and no one else will have that
information outside of yourself
none of your competitors no none of your
partners same thing someone came to your
website
you know visited a few pages read your
blog downloaded your webinar
or you know listen to your podcast and
went away that is also intent
that is only with you uh that's that's
great
but the challenge there is less than
uh five percent of your total
addressable market
is coming to your website the rest are
not visiting your website they're
out there they're doing activities
they're learning from your competitors
industry peers influencers but not
necessarily coming to your website
what intent data in in all intensive
purposes the intent data players talk
about
including litzift is that 95
that's not calling you not emailing you
not coming to your
website filling out a form these are the
people that are doing things
on the outside world that's where intent
data comes is
surfacing which of these 95 of your
total addressable market that's out
there
uh which one of them should you go after
got it man
okay so perhaps you can share with us
taking some examples
of how us as business owners or sales
professionals or marketers
can get our hands on this juicy data so
like you say only about five percent of
our addressable market
if that are actually gonna ever inquire
with us or get in touch with us through
our website or through our landing pages
or other whatever digital offline
marketing we're doing to
bring in those leads so how can we
leverage intent data
what are some some tips we can actually
do to make use of that to tap into it
and um yeah perhaps you can give us for
a starter
and then we can talk about how we can
harness that and make best use of it to
generate leads
yeah um definitely let's let's take the
example for
for this case let's say you are a cyber
security
software company um and you have a big
sales development team a bunch of
prospector sales folks that are trying
to prospect
the first thing that you need to do is
um
you need to have a good idea of who your
total addressable market is
you know companies of certain size
certain buyer personas certain regions
certain industries
you have that pat down now let's talk
about intent
uh let's go a level below of intent
let's talk about certain intent signals
because as i said there is no one form
of intent there is multiple
levels and multiple types of intent and
i'll talk about some of them
and i'll talk also about how you can get
some of this yourself
manually so if you're a cyber security
software company
and if you see people talking on a
linkedin post
whether it's a linkedin pulse article or
some a linkedin post that talks about
endpoint security what if you knew all
the people that are commenting liking on
that
video or content that was published on
linkedin as an example
those are people that you should be
paying attention to because they're
showing interest
in the last two days about something
that your
software does what becomes interesting
is let's say there's 200 people that
like or commented
maybe 50 of them and i'm just throwing
an arbitrary number
might be in engineering or i.t role
and out of those 50 that are in it or
engineering
25 of them fit your ideal customer
profile
those are 25 great people at different
companies
that you can reach out to can will they
be buying your software right now
i don't know but the fact that they are
engaging within a content about endpoint
security
and it happened in the last 48 hours
it's a pretty good chance this top of
mind
at least it'll be resonating with them
rather than you go after every 20
000 other uh it or engineering
professionals
let's go after this 25 so that's an
example of an
intense signal that you can very easily
get
okay so it's it's from to me correct me
if i i'm wrong but it sounds like it's
understanding when your ideal
customer profile so um perhaps in my
case
use the cyber security example but in
our case at webchoice
as a digital marketing company we're
often working with on smaller end of the
scale business owners direct
and then for larger scale companies it
might be marketing directors
or head of marketing or chief marketing
officers or
whoever whoever's involved in the sales
process so let's say there was a piece
of
content the a video that was out on um
how to improve website conversion rates
to generate more leads
or seo perhaps it's one of the services
and then this intake data showed us that
someone that fit our
ideal customer profile comments on this
saying this is really interesting i'd
like to learn more or something like
that
and then we'd be able to leverage that
data to start a conversation with them
would we or how would it work
absolutely yes just think about it so
let's let's forget cyber's degree let's
talk about digital marketing
there was a video about seo or how to
improve website conversion
and you saw you know a bunch of people
that have engaged with that content
and as i said maybe 25
of them are business owners or marketing
directors these are people that are
showing interest about a topic that you
care about
i would the first thing that i would do
is i would get these people get their
contact details email linkedin whatever
information i would do you know a
prospecting saying
hey you know this is what we do
i think you are interested in in this
topic uh
would love to give a free consultation
or something would just love to know
how you're trying to do conversion rate
optimizing currently and how
how much better we can do as an example
right so that's a classic example of you
taking some data
and reaching out to these business
owners or marketing directors
knowing that they or someone from their
company was you know
showing interest about a topic that your
service
addresses right let's let's take it a
step further
another kind of intent is you guys have
competitors there are other digital
marketing agencies or services that do
that
what if one of your digital marketing
services publishes a webinar
and you see a bunch of people share that
webinar talk about their webinar on
twitter or
some forum or or or product or something
like that
that's great the fact that they're
talking about your competitor or even
let's say
sem rush or s or moz they're not
competitors but they're complimentary
companies
then showing interest about a technology
that is complementary to you
gives you an interesting indication that
huh they might be thinking about seo
they might be doing analytics and i can
i can
they're more likely to be attuned to
what i'm offering
than someone completely cold where i
have no information
so those are two couple very basic
information
signals intent signals or trigger events
or whatever you call it
that you can leverage to go after your
prospect rather than buying a list of
all business owners
in north america that makes sense yeah
so
so the second point was kind of
understanding where your idle customers
are interacting with
either your competitors so any any
competitor in your industry
or even you mentioned moz which
obviously an seo based tool
um to actually using tools that are
relevant to the services you provide
so when they're engaging these kind of
companies you can pick up this
information
and then you can you can reach out to
them i guess with some kind of subtle
outreach
just to get it yeah yeah is there an
outreach that you'd recommend
to because i guess because they probably
have never heard of your company
so you are whilst whilst the the
prospect isn't as cold as a
total cold outreach because you can you
can then research them once you know
their info
is there a good way to approach these
there is certainly a
a good way to approach it but before the
goodwill tells us there's certainly a
bad way
to sure it's basically reaching out to
them saying hey i noticed
you were looking at my competitors
webinar
by the way we do this that's certainly a
bad way to do it so one of our customers
suggested and and we have learned this
is make it like a coincidence
that you happen to reach out to them at
the right time
and the way you leverage that intent
signals if you know they're talking
about
you know website converse optimization
your reach out would be
about that topic you might do multiple
digital marketing services but in this
case when you're reaching out you're
going to reach out talking about website
conversion
optimization not you know uh landing
page design or something like that
right so that those are so you make it
look like it's coincidence
make it timely make it relevant short
with a very clear call to action
so just yeah it sounds like just
personalization making it super relevant
to what that person was actually looking
at at the time
100 100 so it's timing the intense
signals gave you the timing and
and and the contact now you're going to
add some context to it and reach out
um so so now that you start thinking
about it
there are some let's let's go let's dig
into a few other interesting signals
that you can relatively easily get
what if uh as a digital marketing
services
you saw them recently install
um a facebook pixel on their website
let's say you do paid media services i
don't know if you do that
or let's say you do you know seo
optimization and let's say you see them
starting to use seo mods or like
or sem russia or any of them right
that's an interesting signal for you to
say oh they have started recently
starting buying paid media
they're they're doubling down on uh on
on seo analytics
so even if i have not seen any of their
employees research about you know my
competitor or talk about website
optimization the fact that they are
using these tools or
started using these tools in the last 30
days might be an interesting trigger for
me
to reach out to them because it's my
services are orthogonal or
complementary to what they are doing
it's a good timing to be
now imagine this you cross reference
that with an engagement
so let's say you found out they started
using
uh facebook uh ads recently on their
website
in the last 30 days and a week ago you
saw them
talk about how to better optimize your
paid media
and they're engaging with the content
about paid media on some channel
coupled with those two signals now you
have a lot more information about them
saying
i know they're starting to run paid paid
campaigns and their
marketing director was talking about or
you know engaging with content
around paid media
on b2b boom you now have more likelihood
or more context to reach out to them and
the likelihood of them
engaging back goes up a lot higher
because again it's all about timing and
relevancy right
yeah man i love that so it's a
combination of things it sounds like so
that the latest point was
using these actual buying signals to
understand when people in the market if
they're spending money on something
that's similar to what you do
it they may well be in the market to buy
your service if it's slightly different
spending money on and then combining
various signals
so if they've showed intent for in our
example paid ads or
search engine optimization tools then
they might be looking at your product
and if they've engaged on a different
piece of content say on linkedin
then you know that they're they're
probably pretty interested in this this
service so it might be a great time to
reach out
let absolutely right so let me add a
couple more layers to this example
now what if what if you found out that
the same company
was in the last week they put out a
posting
about for a paid search director that's
a pretty interesting point
the fact that they're hiring for a paid
search director or director of paid
media
again very interesting right so now
you're you're buying
that company's intent score or buying
propensity likelihood of buying is going
up
again you do not know that they're gonna
buy or not
absolutely not but if you had this
information and as a sales person should
you reach out to them
damn right right so this is you you're
layering in other pieces of information
keep in mind all of this data is
publicly available there's no
secret or you know backdoor type of type
of data collection you're just looking
at signals that are available online
to pick up this now let's let's go
another step further
let's look at another kind of signal the
same company their director of digital
marketing
probably three months ago attended a
podcast like this
and was talking about that they're
doubling down on their
marketing efforts for 2021. what if you
need that information what if that data
was collected
you now know they're investing on that
they're hiring for a paid media director
they started using facebook ads using
sem rush
now you have a very good picture of what
this company is what are their needs
who to talk to right um so so that's
that's what i mean
when i think of intent is intended
there's no one single source
i wish there was and but if you start
looking at different pieces of
disparate information and if you put
them together
it it becomes uh it becomes very very
interesting for you to go ahead
and prospect yeah in my mind it almost
sounds like putting together the pieces
of a puzzle
so yeah exactly so knowing when the
timing is right
and not just waiting for one small and
you're like you're saying trigger event
or buying signal
but waiting for perhaps several so they
might have engaged on content linkedin
they might be looking at a tool they
might have started buying something
similar
and they might advertise like you said
that they're advertising for someone
that's actually going to help with the
service that you offer
and then you know the timing's right
everything all the ducks in a row now's
the time to craft that code email pick
up the phone or however you want to
outreach them on linkedin whatever your
channel is
and start a conversation it sounds like
is that about right absolutely yes and i
i
sometimes joke is you know uh when
you're prospecting if you have all these
triggers you should
you you need to be thinking like a
detective there are all these puzzles
out there
trails that are left behind the
companies if you pay those attention you
can pick up these clues
and build a picture about who to go
after so think like sherlock holmes and
and whoever and then go after these
accounts
yeah good stuff man okay so okay we've
covered some great stuff um
in terms of intent data itself to ken
how can everyone tuning and get that get
their mits get their hands on this kind
of stuff
yeah i mean um at least we are an
intended provider
where we collect all the different
signals that i mentioned and more
and a you know dozen more signals by
looking at public web
we our crawlers extract this data
you know and then every morning in your
crm literally you log in
and you get a list of accounts and
contacts for you to go after based on
all the triggers we picked up in the
last 24 hours
um so that's what lead sip does
ourselves we we typically go after
companies that do have a defined process
they have a marketing and dimension
person
they have a team of sdr's that are
dedicated for prospecting they just need
the right fuel for them to go after um
so that's that's
that's what that's what leadsup does but
as i said some of these tools um some of
the
techniques that i said can be done
manually by yourself it just doesn't
scale
if you're a small company you're better
off doing it yourself
little bit little and then when you
reach certain skill like you have you
know 50 people and
you're you have a repeatable process and
you just want more signals for your
sales team to go after
marketing to nurture um at that point
then you then then you should use look
at tools like lead theft
to help you just you know turbocharge
your uh outbound prospecting and
your your dimension efforts sure sure
so i guess i guess like you said
obviously your your talk can help people
it sounds very very useful
um but i guess the alternative is to do
it manually is it so to
to do things like linkedin to to look at
your idle customers to look at what
they're engaging with content-wise
and then other publicly available
platforms and
are there any any tips any way that we
can help our audience to come with any
other tools that
might be useful if they are looking to
get to grips with this before they're
perhaps looking at a software or a
solution
and yeah there is a tool that
that we've seen some people use it's
called phantom buster you probably are
familiar with it
so you can basically build a workflow
using phantom buster
and you know trade.io or zpr where you
can
put in phantom buster a phrasing
you know are people researching about
this topic on linkedin you give the
linkedin post you have to do the finding
and enter it
phantom buster will extract the linkedin
you can then use another tool
from linkedin to get their contact
details and then use
another tool to tie it together and then
push it to your crm so there are there
are
there are tools that that you can you
know cobble together
to get some of this data uh pretty
pretty easily
um even automate some of these processes
okay and um from from my background i'm
in digital marketing now but in days
gone by
i have have purchased lists or at the
time my bosses
or my managers were purchasing data
lists and you know the score you're
calling up
prospects hoping that they're they're
gonna be on the line quite a lot of the
time the information is out of date or
wrong or the person's move so
why is intent data actually better than
um
traditional data list or data list
rental or purchasing data
well there are multiple reasons right
the first reason is
the stat says at any given time only
three percent
of your uh total additional market is in
market for
a solution like yours that's that's your
number three percent is actively looking
and i think another 20 to 30 percent
are starting to be in the prior journey
so if you are buying a static list you
have
no context on who is actively looking
how and what they're looking for so you
are basically
spraying and praying and hoping assuming
the data is correct
you're hoping that these people are in
need for your services
so think about it you know if three
percent are actively looking
uh 97 percent are not so your chances of
missing the target
are are very high as in sales
development rep
you are it's it it gets very very tiring
uh very very fast very demotivating when
you're reaching out your pers
even the best of personalization is not
going to get you any anywhere if the
timing and relevance is not right
right so that's why static lists are
are tricky and it that's that's the
challenge um static lists are good
you can take a static list of contacts
assuming they're all
perfectly up to date and then you can
use intent signals
to prioritize them so let's say you have
5000 contact
maybe out of this 5 000 75 of them
are active in market today boom those
are the 75
of the uh contact lists you go after so
i i would not completely throw it out
of the window but leverage like pair
your static list with some kind of a
dynamic signal
to to make your prospecting smarter and
more
effective to come this has been great
man we've learned some
great tips in terms of intent data and
how we can leverage buying signals
i'd like to ask everyone that comes on
is there one thing that you think that
businesses should be doing with digital
marketing too again that's going to help
them
um one thing i i
i i think if i based on my experience i
think from a digital marketing
perspective
i think you should sing omni channel uh
across
every channel so um create your content
uh distribute them on twitter linkedin
facebook
youtube think of that when you're
prospecting think of doing
reaching out via email cop pair that
with phone
social interaction um when you're doing
inbound marketing
all the people that are opening your
emails uh people that are coming to your
website
collect that data because that is
intense signal someone open your email
three times
not replying is a signal bring it back
so so omni channel uh omni present
basically all the time uh and and then
and then look at all the metadata that
you're getting
from people visiting your website people
opening your emails
people talking on digital channels and
tie them together and then leverage that
for your
dimension and legion efforts do not just
go blind and say
all right i'm targeting vps of marketing
and owners
in north america there's 18 000 people
let me blast all of them over the next
three months
that's not gonna work be smarter about
who you reach out to
and be present all the time great stuff
man everyone you've been tuning in to
sam's business growth show where we sit
down with business leaders
experts and entrepreneurs from around
the globe we find out their story how
digital marketing's helped along the way
and their exclusive tips and insights to
help you skyrocket your sales and scar
your business to kind of if you could
thank just one person either dead or
alive having a positive influence on
yourself and your career
who would that be and why um
so this person is dead unfortunately his
name is randy posh
um he is a computer science researcher
and he he sadly passed away um
because he had pancreatic cancer too
early um he he did a
lecture on youtube it's called the last
lecture i don't know if you've heard of
it
um it's one hour long lecture and he
eventually wrote a book about it before
before before he he died um and
i think if if i had to say one single
person i have not met him
i just randomly stumble upon it i think
that that
hour-long video had more information
life lessons than i have ever collected
or
gotten from you know my my entire
existence so
i would like to thank in in helping me
shape to be the person who i am um
so yeah well man you have to send us a
link to that video so we can all check
it out
i'll send that link and i i cannot
recommend it enough
i cannot recommend it enough the last
lecture
good stuff to tell us a bit more a quick
snapshot of your business how people can
connect with you
and the best way to learn from yourself
and get in touch
absolutely so lead sif is an intent data
platform as as you have figured out by
now
um we are the most actionable form of
intent for
b2b technology companies helping you
identify which accounts and contacts to
go after
based on these signals of intent as some
of them i mentioned
uh the best way to reach out to me is
linkedin
uh look me up to hand us kandas
super active on on twitter it's tdas
and and feel free to email me it's tdas
leadsift.com anything around you know
what tools you can use to do some of the
prospecting
and and collect intent data more than
happy to help
and uh if you want to know more about
lead sets just go to leadsif.com
book a demo we do actually do a
personalized demo where we give you
you know just for your time we do give
you accounts showing intent
in your industry so there is really no
downside to take that meeting
uh so yeah thanks so much for coming on
to you can appreciate it man
no thank you for having me sam it was
great are you tired of constantly
hunting for new customers
you could be missing out on regular
inbound opportunities all because
your website isn't on the first page of
google
perhaps you're already spending lots of
money on advertising but your website is
failing to convert
all of your hard-earned visitors into a
consistent flow
of new customers if you'd like to learn
more about our unusual approach
that brings idle clients straight to you
connect with sam dunning on linkedin
or book a free 20-minute consultation by
webchoiceuk.com
that's webchoiceuk.com
subscribe today for more digital
marketing sales and business growth tips
from the experts